# Appendix / FAQ

## Environments

- Do not use the macro beginning with `ATCODER_`.
- Although we aimed to make it work in many environments, it requires some C++ extension. We assume the following.
  - `__int128 / unsigned __int128(g++, clang++)` or `_mul128 / _umul128(Visual Studio)` works.
  - `__builtin_(ctz/ctzll/clz/clzll/popcount)(g++, clang++)` or `_BitScan(Forward/Reverse)(Visual Studio)` works.
  - `char / short / int / ll` and their `unsigned` types (and `signed char`) are `8 / 16 / 32 / 64` bits.
  - 💻 [Signed integers are two's complement](http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg21/docs/papers/2018/p0907r0.html).

## How to Install

### g++ / clang++

The easiest way is to put `atcoder` folder in the same place as `main.cpp` and execute `g++ main.cpp -std=c++14 -I .`, as noted in the index. Here, `.` is the symbol that represents the current directory (you should type a space and a period after `I`).

If you don't want to copy `atcoder` folder manually, do as follows.

- Specify the command like `g++ main.cpp -std=c++14 -I /path/to/ac-library` (`/path/to/ac-library` stands for the directory where the downloaded ac-library is located).
- Specify the place of `atcoder` folder by the environment variable `CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH` as `CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH="/path/to/ac-library"`. (On Windows, type like `C:\path\to\ac-library` in the field of the variable `CPLUS_INCLUDE_PATH` on the [Window of Environment Variables](https://img.atcoder.jp/practice2/01333b7c5575b09b5868376ef242aa52.png). Note that, you should use backslashes, not slashes.) Then, you can compile just by `g++ main.cpp -std=c++14`.

### Visual Studio

Visual Studio 2017 / 2019 is supported. Update it if you are using old Visual Studio.

If Visual Studio is installed, there is a folder like the following.

- `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\(Community, Professional or Enterprise)\VC\Tools\MSVC\(Some number, e.g. 14.27.29110)\include`
- `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2017\(Community, Professional or Enterprise)\VC\Tools\MSVC\(Some number, e.g. 14.10.25017)\include`

Copy `atcoder` folder into it, i.e., put it so that the path will be as follows.

- `C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft Visual Studio\2019\(Community, Professional or Enterprise)\VC\Tools\MSVC\(Some number, e.g. 14.27.29110)\include\atcoder\dsu.hpp`

## How to Submit to Other Online Judge Systems

We prepared the script `expander.py` (python3.5 or later).
The code `combined.cpp`, which can be compiled on other online judge systems, is generated by executing `python3 expander.py main.cpp`.

Although we tested it, we do not guarantee that it works correctly.

## Preliminaries

### 💻Mark

This mark represents that the part, e.g., modint, may be difficult to use if you do not know much about C++.
AC Library is designed to be still usable if you ignore the parts with this mark.

### Template Function

For example, `suffix_array(v)` can take `vector<int>`, `vector<ll>`, et cetera as an argument. In this document, we unify these notations to `suffix_array<T>(vector<T> v)`.

For example, to calculate the suffix array of the integral array $v$ stored in `vector<int>`, we can code as follows.

```cpp
vector<int> sa = suffix_array(v);
// vector<int> sa = suffix_array<int>(v); : wrong usage
```

### Default Constructor

The structs like `scc_graph` can be declared not only like the former code, but also like the latter code without initialization.

```cpp
#include <atcoder/scc>;
using namespace atcoder;

int main() {
    int n;
    scanf("%d", &n);
    scc_graph g(n); // create the graph with n vertices
    return 0;
}
```

```cpp
#include <atcoder/scc>;
using namespace atcoder;

scc_graph g;

int main() {
    return 0;
}
```

If it is declared in the latter way, the behavior (of the default constructor) is as follows.

- It takes $O(1)$-time.
- The behavior is undefined if the member variables are accessed or the member functions are called.

You can also assign a value to the struct later.

```cpp
#include <atcoder/scc>;
using namespace atcoder;

scc_graph g;

int main() {
    g = scc_graph(10);
    return 0;
}
```

### The Type of the Edges

In the graph libraries, the type `mf_graph<Cap>::edge` is used to store edges.

For example, the type of the edges of `mf_graph<int>` is `mf_graph<int>::edge`.
If you are not familiar to `::`, you can use the string `mf_graph<int>::edge` in the same manner as `int` or `string`, like the following example.

```cpp
vector<mf_graph<int>::edge> v;
mf_graph<int>::edge e;
```

### Default Template Arguments

Sometimes the following notation is used, as in the document of convolution.

```cpp
vector<T> convolution<int m = 998244353>(vector<T> a, vector<T> b)
```

It means the default template argument. As the following example, you can call the function without explicitly specifying `m`.

```cpp
vector<long long> c = convolution(a, b);
vector<long long> c = convolution<924844033>(a, b);
```

In the first case, $m$ is automatically set to be $998244353$.
In the second case, $m$ becomes the value that is explicitly specified, which is $924844033$ here.

### 💻 explicit specifier

Constructors of structs except `modint` are declared with the explicit specifier.

## Precise requirements in Segtree / LazySegtree

In some situations, the cardinality of algebraic structures for Segtree / LazySegtree would be infinite. In precise meaning, it may break the constraints in the document.

For example, for the typical LazySegtree on $S = \mathrm{int}$ that processes the queries of range max and range addition, $S$ is not closed under addition due to the overflow.
To resolve this problem, it is ensured to work correctly in the following situation.

### Segtree

- $S$ is an algebraic structure that satisfies the properties in the document.
- $e \in S' \subseteq S$
- If the arguments and the results are in $S'$, the types and operations work correctly.
- For any moment, every contigurous subsequence $a_l, a_{l+1}, \cdots, a_{r-1}$ satisfies $a_l \cdot a_{l+1} \cdot \ldots \cdot a_{r-1}\in S'$.

### LazySegtree

- $(S, F)$ is a pair of algebraic structures that satisfies the properties in the document.
- $e \in S' \subseteq S, \mathrm{id} \in F' \subseteq F$
- If the arguments and the results are in $S'$ or $F'$, the types and operations work correctly.
- For any moment, every contigurous subsequence $a_l, a_{l+1}, \cdots, a_{r-1}$ satisfies $a_l \cdot a_{l+1} \cdot \ldots \cdot a_{r-1}\in S'$.
- Let us fix an element and denote the maps acted on it by $f_0, f_1, ..., f_{k-1} \in F$ in this order. Then, for every contigurous subsequence $f_l, \cdots, f_{r-1}$, $f_{r-1} \circ f_{l+1} \circ \dots \circ f_{l} \in F'$.

Above LazySegtree can naturally be defined as follows, using infinite algebraic structures $S$ and $F$.

- $S = \mathbb{Z} \cup \{-\infty\}$
- The binary operation $\cdot$ on $S$ is $\mathrm{max}$ and  $e = -\infty$.
- $F$ is the set of the maps that adds a constant integer ($\mathrm{id}$ is the map that adds $0$).

Under some sufficiently small constraints, it can be treated by this library by setting $(S', F')$ as follows.

- $S' = (\mathbb{Z} \cap (-2^{31}, 2^{31})) \cup \{-\infty\}$
- $S'$ is represented by $\mathrm{int}$. The element $x\in S'$ is represented as $x$ in $\mathrm{int}$ if $x \neq -\infty$ and $-2^{31}$ if $x = -\infty$.
- $F'$ is the set of the maps that adds a constant integer in $[-2^{31}, 2^{31})$ and represented naturally using the type $\mathrm{int}$.

## The Behavior of maxflow

Internally, for each edge $e$, it stores the flow amount $f_e$ and the capacity $c_e$.
Let $\mathrm{out}(v)$ and $\mathrm{in}(v)$ be the set of edges starts and ends at $v$, respectively.
For each vertex $v$, let $g(v, f) = \sum_{e \in \mathrm{in}(v)}{f_e} - \sum_{e \in \mathrm{out}(v)}{f_e}$.

### `flow(s, t)`

It changes the flow amount of each edge. Let $f_e$ and $f'_e$ be the flow amount of edge $e$ before and after calling it, respectively.
Precisely, it changes the flow amount as follows.

- $0 \leq f'_e \leq c_e$
- $g(v, f) = g(v, f')$ holds for all vertices $v$ other than $s$ and $t$.
- If flow_limit is specified, $g(t, f') - g(t, f) \leq \mathrm{flow\\_limit}$.
- $g(t, f') - g(t, f)$ is maximized under these conditions. It returns this $g(t, f') - g(t, f)$.

### `min_cut(s)`

The residual network is the graph whose edge set is given by gathering $(u, v)$ for each edge $e = (u, v, f_e, c_e)$ with $f_e \lt c_e$ and $(v, u)$ for each edge $e$ with $0 \lt f_e$.
It returns the set of the vertices that is reachable from $s$ in the residual network.

### `change_edge(i, new_cap, new_flow)`

It changes the flow amount and the capacity of the edge $i$ to `new_flow` and `new_cap`, respectively. It doesn't change other values.
